.\" header.tmac.  GetData manual macros.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.

.\" Format a function name with optional trailer: func_name()trailer
.de FN \" func_name [trailer]
.nh
.BR \\$1 ()\\$2
.hy
..

.\" Format a reference to section 3 of the manual: name(3)trailer
.de F3 \" func_name [trailer]
.nh
.BR \\$1 (3)\\$2
.hy
..

.\" Format the header of a list of definitons
.de DD \" name alt...
.ie "\\$2"" \{ \
.TP 8
.PD
.B \\$1 \}
.el \{ \
.PP
.B \\$1
.PD 0
.DD \\$2 \\$3 \}
..

.\" Start a code block: Note: groff defines an undocumented .SC for
.\" Bell Labs man legacy reasons.
.de SC
.fam C
.na
.nh
..

.\" End a code block
.de EC
.hy
.ad
.fam
..

.\" Format a structure pointer member: struct->member\fRtrailer
.de SPM \" struct member trailer
.nh
.ie "\\$3"" .IB \\$1 ->\: \\$2
.el .IB \\$1 ->\: \\$2\fR\\$3
.hy
..

.\" Format a function argument
.de ARG \" name trailer
.nh
.ie "\\$2"" .I \\$1
.el .IR \\$1 \\$2
.hy
..

.\" Hyphenation exceptions
.hw sarray carray lincom linterp
.\" gd_error.3.  The gd_error man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2014, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_error 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_error, gd_error_string \(em report a GetData library error

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "int gd_error(const DIRFILE *" dirfile );
.HP
.BI "char *gd_error_string(const DIRFILE *" dirfile ", char *" buffer ", size_t
.IB buflen );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_error
function determines the success or failure of the most recent GetData library
function call that operated on
.ARG dirfile .
If the last call succeeded,
.FN gd_error
will return
.B GD_E_OK
(which equals zero).  If the last call failed,
.FN gd_error
returns a negative-valued error code indicating the cause of the failure.
Possible codes vary from function to function.  See corresponding manual page of
the function that failed for a list of possible codes.

The
.FN gd_error_string
function behaves similarly, but composes a string describing the error.  If 
.ARG buffer
is not NULL, the string is written to this memory location.  At most
.ARG buflen
characters will be written including the terminating NUL byte.  If
.ARG buffer
is not large enough to hold the entire string, the string will be truncated, but
the truncated string will still be NUL-terminated.

If
.ARG buffer
is NULL,
.FN gd_error_string
will allocate a string of sufficient length on the heap.  In this case,
.ARG buflen
is ignored.  By default,
.F3 malloc
is used to allocate this buffer, but an alternate memory manager may be
specified by calling
.F3 gd_alloc_funcs
before calling this function.  The caller is responsible for deallocating this
string when it is no longer needed.

The functions
.F3 gd_alloc_funcs ,
.F3 gd_error_count ,
.F3 gd_flags ,
.F3 gd_free_entry_strings ,
.F3 gd_mplex_lookback ,
and
.F3 gd_parser_callback
are ignored by these functions, since they always succeed.  Previous
.BR gd_error()
and
.BR gd_error_string()
calls are also ignored.

.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.FN gd_error
function always returns the integer error code of the last library call on the
supplied DIRFILE object.

If
.ARG buffer
is non-NULL,
.FN gd_error_string
returns 
.ARG buffer ,
unless
.ARG buflen
is less than one, in which case it returns NULL.  If
.ARG buffer
is NULL, this function returns a newly allocated string of sufficient length
which should be deallocated by the caller, or NULL, if memory allocation failed.

.SH HISTORY
The
.FN get_error_string
function appeared in GetData-0.3.0.

The
.FN get_error
function appeared in GetData-0.4.0.  Before this, the error code was directly
accessible via the
.SPM dirfile error
member in the
.B DIRFILE
structure.

In GetData-0.7.0, these functions were renamed to
.FN gd_error
and
.FN gd_error_string .
This is also the first release in which
.FN gd_error_string
would allocate a buffer for the error string if passed NULL.

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_error_count
