.\" header.tmac.  GetData manual macros.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.

.\" Format a function name with optional trailer: func_name()trailer
.de FN \" func_name [trailer]
.nh
.BR \\$1 ()\\$2
.hy
..

.\" Format a reference to section 3 of the manual: name(3)trailer
.de F3 \" func_name [trailer]
.nh
.BR \\$1 (3)\\$2
.hy
..

.\" Format the header of a list of definitons
.de DD \" name alt...
.ie "\\$2"" \{ \
.TP 8
.PD
.B \\$1 \}
.el \{ \
.PP
.B \\$1
.PD 0
.DD \\$2 \\$3 \}
..

.\" Start a code block: Note: groff defines an undocumented .SC for
.\" Bell Labs man legacy reasons.
.de SC
.fam C
.na
.nh
..

.\" End a code block
.de EC
.hy
.ad
.fam
..

.\" Format a structure pointer member: struct->member\fRtrailer
.de SPM \" struct member trailer
.nh
.ie "\\$3"" .IB \\$1 ->\: \\$2
.el .IB \\$1 ->\: \\$2\fR\\$3
.hy
..

.\" Format a function argument
.de ARG \" name trailer
.nh
.ie "\\$2"" .I \\$1
.el .IR \\$1 \\$2
.hy
..

.\" Hyphenation exceptions
.hw sarray carray lincom linterp
.\" gd_entry_type.3.  The gd_entry_type man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_entry_type 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_entry_type \(em retrieve the type of a Dirfile field

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "gd_entype_t gd_entry_type(const DIRFILE *" dirfile ", const char"
.BI * field_code );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_entry_type
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.ARG dirfile
and returns the field type of the field specified by
.ARG field_code .
If
.ARG field_code
contains a valid representation suffix, it will be ignored.

The
.B gd_entype_t
type is an enumerated type which may take any of the following values:
.IP
.SC
.BR GD_BIT_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_CARRAY_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_CONST_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_DIVIDE_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_INDEX_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_INDIR_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_LINCOM_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_LINTERP_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_MPLEX_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_MULTIPLY_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_PHASE_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_POLYNOM_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_RAW_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_RECIP_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_SARRAY_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_SBIT_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_SINDIR_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_STRING_ENTRY ,
.BR GD_WINDOW_ENTRY .
.EC

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.FN gd_entry_type
returns the field type of the specified field.  On error,
.FN gd_entry_type
returns
.B GD_NO_ENTRY
and stores a negative-valued error code in the
.B DIRFILE
object which may be retrieved by a subsequent call to
.F3 gd_error .
Possible error codes are:
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_BAD_CODE
The field specified by
.ARG field_code
was not found in the database.
.PP
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY
The
.FN get_entry_type
function appeared in GetData-0.5.0.

In GetData-0.7.0, this function was renamed to
.FN gd_entry_type .

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_entry ,
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string ,
.F3 gd_fragmentname ,
.F3 gd_open ,
.F3 gd_parent_fragment ,
dirfile(5)
