.\" header.tmac.  GetData manual macros.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.

.\" Format a function name with optional trailer: func_name()trailer
.de FN \" func_name [trailer]
.nh
.BR \\$1 ()\\$2
.hy
..

.\" Format a reference to section 3 of the manual: name(3)trailer
.de F3 \" func_name [trailer]
.nh
.BR \\$1 (3)\\$2
.hy
..

.\" Format the header of a list of definitons
.de DD \" name alt...
.ie "\\$2"" \{ \
.TP 8
.PD
.B \\$1 \}
.el \{ \
.PP
.B \\$1
.PD 0
.DD \\$2 \\$3 \}
..

.\" Start a code block: Note: groff defines an undocumented .SC for
.\" Bell Labs man legacy reasons.
.de SC
.fam C
.na
.nh
..

.\" End a code block
.de EC
.hy
.ad
.fam
..

.\" Format a structure pointer member: struct->member\fRtrailer
.de SPM \" struct member trailer
.nh
.ie "\\$3"" .IB \\$1 ->\: \\$2
.el .IB \\$1 ->\: \\$2\fR\\$3
.hy
..

.\" Format a function argument
.de ARG \" name trailer
.nh
.ie "\\$2"" .I \\$1
.el .IR \\$1 \\$2
.hy
..

.\" Hyphenation exceptions
.hw sarray carray lincom linterp
.\" gd_fragmentname.3.  The gd_fragmentname man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2010, 2016 D.V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_fragmentname 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_fragmentname \(em retrieve a Dirfile format specification fragment name

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "const char* gd_fragmentname(const DIRFILE *" dirfile ", int " index );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.FN gd_fragmentname
function queries a dirfile(5) database specified by
.ARG dirfile
and returns the filename of the format specification fragment indexed by the
non-negative
.ARG index .

The 
.ARG dirfile
argument must point to a valid DIRFILE object previously created by a call to
.F3 gd_open .

The fragment with
.ARG index
equal to zero is always the primary fragment for the database (the file called 
.B format
in the root dirfile directory).  The largest valid value of
.ARG index
is one less than the total number of fragments, which may be obtained from a
call to
.F3 gd_nfragments .

.SH RETURN VALUE
Upon successful completion,
.FN gd_fragmentname
returns a pointer to a read-only character string containing the file name of
the specified fragment.

On error, this function returns NULL and stores a negative-valued error code in
the
.B DIRFILE
object which may be retrieved by a subsequent call to
.F3 gd_error .
Possible error codes are:
.DD GD_E_BAD_DIRFILE
The supplied dirfile was invalid.
.DD GD_E_BAD_INDEX
The supplied index was out of range.
.PP
A descriptive error string for the error may be obtained by calling
.F3 gd_error_string .

.SH HISTORY
The
.FN get_fragmentname
function appeared in GetData-0.4.0.

In GetData-0.7.0 this function was renamed to
.FN gd_fragmentname .

.SH SEE ALSO
dirfile(5),
.F3 gd_error ,
.F3 gd_error_string ,
.F3 gd_include ,
.F3 gd_nfragments ,
.F3 gd_open ,
.F3 gd_parent_fragment
