.\" header.tmac.  GetData manual macros.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2016 D. V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.

.\" Format a function name with optional trailer: func_name()trailer
.de FN \" func_name [trailer]
.nh
.BR \\$1 ()\\$2
.hy
..

.\" Format a reference to section 3 of the manual: name(3)trailer
.de F3 \" func_name [trailer]
.nh
.BR \\$1 (3)\\$2
.hy
..

.\" Format the header of a list of definitons
.de DD \" name alt...
.ie "\\$2"" \{ \
.TP 8
.PD
.B \\$1 \}
.el \{ \
.PP
.B \\$1
.PD 0
.DD \\$2 \\$3 \}
..

.\" Start a code block: Note: groff defines an undocumented .SC for
.\" Bell Labs man legacy reasons.
.de SC
.fam C
.na
.nh
..

.\" End a code block
.de EC
.hy
.ad
.fam
..

.\" Format a structure pointer member: struct->member\fRtrailer
.de SPM \" struct member trailer
.nh
.ie "\\$3"" .IB \\$1 ->\: \\$2
.el .IB \\$1 ->\: \\$2\fR\\$3
.hy
..

.\" Format a function argument
.de ARG \" name trailer
.nh
.ie "\\$2"" .I \\$1
.el .IR \\$1 \\$2
.hy
..

.\" Hyphenation exceptions
.hw sarray carray lincom linterp
.\" gd_frameoffset64.3.  The gd_frameoffset64 man page.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2008, 2010, 2016 D.V. Wiebe
.\"
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.\"
.\" This file is part of the GetData project.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document
.\" under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.2 or
.\" any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no
.\" Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts, and with no Back-Cover
.\" Texts.  A copy of the license is included in the `COPYING.DOC' file
.\" as part of this distribution.
.\"
.TH gd_frameoffset64 3 "25 December 2016" "Version 0.10.0" "GETDATA"

.SH NAME
gd_frameoffset64, gd_alter_frameoffset64 \(em report or change the frame
offset of fields in a dirfile, with largefile support

.SH SYNOPSIS
.SC
.B #define GD_64BIT_API
.br
.B #include <getdata.h>
.HP
.BI "gd_off64_t gd_frameoffset(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", int " fragment_index );
.HP
.BI "int gd_alter_frameoffset64(DIRFILE *" dirfile ", gd_off64_t " offset ,
.BI "int " fragment_index ", int " move );
.EC

.SH DESCRIPTION
These versions of
.F3 gd_frameoffset
and
.F3 gd_alter_frameoffset
use a 64-bit offset type
.RB ( gd_off64_t ),
where one is available, regardless of the size of
.BR off_t .
They are only available if
.BR GD_64BIT_API
has been defined before including getdata.h.

If
.B off_t
is a 64-bit type, these functions will the same as
.F3 gd_framenum_subset
and
.F3 gd_alter_frameoffset .
Otherwise,
.F3 gd_framenum_subset
and
.F3 gd_alter_frameoffset
will be versions of these function which use a 32-bit
.BR off_t .

.SH SEE ALSO
.F3 gd_alter_frameoffset ,
.F3 gd_frameoffset ,
.BR feature_test_macros (7)
